End User License Agreement
--------------------------


Preface
-------

The Software License Agreement in Chapter 1 and the Supplement
in Chapter 2 contain license terms and conditions that govern
the use of NVIDIA software. By accepting this agreement, you
agree to comply with all the terms and conditions applicable
to the product(s) included herein.


NVIDIA Driver


Description

This package contains the operating system driver and
fundamental system software components for NVIDIA GPUs.


NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit


Description

The NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit provides command-line and graphical
tools for building, debugging and optimizing the performance
of applications accelerated by NVIDIA GPUs, runtime and math
libraries, and documentation including programming guides,
user manuals, and API references.


Default Install Location of CUDA Toolkit

Windows platform:

%ProgramFiles%\NVIDIA GPU Computing Toolkit\CUDA\v#.#

Linux platform:

/usr/local/cuda-#.#

Mac platform:

/Developer/NVIDIA/CUDA-#.#


NVIDIA CUDA Samples


Description

This package includes over 100+ CUDA examples that demonstrate
various CUDA programming principles, and efficient CUDA
implementation of algorithms in specific application domains.


Default Install Location of CUDA Samples

Windows platform:

%ProgramData%\NVIDIA Corporation\CUDA Samples\v#.#

Linux platform:

/usr/local/cuda-#.#/samples

and

$HOME/NVIDIA_CUDA-#.#_Samples

Mac platform:

/Developer/NVIDIA/CUDA-#.#/samples


NVIDIA Nsight Visual Studio Edition (Windows only)


Description

NVIDIA Nsight Development Platform, Visual Studio Edition is a
development environment integrated into Microsoft Visual
Studio that provides tools for debugging, profiling, analyzing
and optimizing your GPU computing and graphics applications.


Default Install Location of Nsight Visual Studio Edition

Windows platform:

%ProgramFiles(x86)%\NVIDIA Corporation\Nsight Visual Studio Edition #.#


1. NVIDIA Software License Agreement
------------------------------------


Release Date: October 20, 2016
------------------------------


IMPORTANT NOTICE -- READ BEFORE DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING,
COPYING OR USING THE LICENSED SOFTWARE:
--------------------------------------------------------

This Software License Agreement ("SLA”), made and entered
into as of the time and date of click through action
(“Effective Date”), is a legal agreement between you and
NVIDIA Corporation ("NVIDIA") and governs the use of the
NVIDIA computer software and the documentation made available
for use with such NVIDIA software. By downloading, installing,
copying, or otherwise using the NVIDIA software and/or
documentation, you agree to be bound by the terms of this SLA.
If you do not agree to the terms of this SLA, do not download,
install, copy or use the NVIDIA software or documentation. IF
YOU ARE ENTERING INTO THIS SLA ON BEHALF OF A COMPANY OR OTHER
LEGAL ENTITY, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE THE LEGAL AUTHORITY
TO BIND THE ENTITY TO THIS SLA, IN WHICH CASE “YOU” WILL
MEAN THE ENTITY YOU REPRESENT. IF YOU DON’T HAVE SUCH
AUTHORITY, OR IF YOU DON’T ACCEPT ALL THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS SLA, THEN NVIDIA DOES NOT AGREE TO LICENSE
THE LICENSED SOFTWARE TO YOU, AND YOU MAY NOT DOWNLOAD,
INSTALL, COPY OR USE IT.


1.1. License


1.1.1. License Grant

Subject to the terms of the AGREEMENT, NVIDIA hereby grants
you a non-exclusive, non-transferable license, without the
right to sublicense (except as expressly set forth in a
Supplement), during the applicable license term unless earlier
terminated as provided below, to have Authorized Users install
and use the Software, including modifications (if expressly
permitted in a Supplement), in accordance with the
Documentation. You are only licensed to activate and use
Licensed Software for which you a have a valid license, even
if during the download or installation you are presented with
other product options. No Orders are binding on NVIDIA until
accepted by NVIDIA. Your Orders are subject to the AGREEMENT.

SLA Supplements

Certain Licensed Software licensed under this SLA may be
subject to additional terms and conditions that will be
presented to you in a Supplement for acceptance prior to the
delivery of such Licensed Software under this SLA and the
applicable Supplement. Licensed Software will only be
delivered to you upon your acceptance of all applicable terms.


1.1.2. Limited Purposes Licenses

If your license is provided for one of the purposes indicated
below, then notwithstanding contrary terms in Section 1.1 or
in a Supplement, such licenses are for internal use and do not
include any right or license to sub-license and distribute the
Licensed Software or its output in any way in any public
release, however limited, and/or in any manner that provides
third parties with use of or access to the Licensed Software
or its functionality or output, including (but not limited to)
external alpha or beta testing or development phases. Further:

  1. 

    Evaluation License: You may use evaluation licenses solely
    for your internal evaluation of the Licensed Software for
    broader adoption within your Enterprise or in connection
    with a NVIDIA product purchase decision, and such licenses
    have an expiration date as indicated by NVIDIA in its sole
    discretion (or ninety days from the date of download if no
    other duration is indicated).

  2. 

    Educational/Academic License: You may use
    educational/academic licenses solely for educational
    purposes and all users must be enrolled or employed by an
    academic institution. If you do not meet NVIDIA’s
    academic program requirements for educational
    institutions, you have no rights under this license.

  3. 

    Test/Development License. You may use test/development
    licenses solely for your internal development, testing
    and/or debugging of your software applications or for
    interoperability testing with the Licensed Software, and
    such licenses have an expiration date as indicated by
    NVIDIA in its sole discretion (or one year from the date
    of download if no other duration is indicated). NVIDIA
    Confidential Information under the AGREEMENT includes
    output from Licensed Software developer tools identified
    as “Pro” versions, where the output reveals
    functionality or performance data pertinent to NVIDIA
    hardware or software products.


1.1.3. Pre-release Licenses

With respect to alpha, beta, preview, and other pre-release
Software and Documentation (“Pre-Release Licensed
Software”) delivered to you under the AGREEMENT you
acknowledge and agree that such Pre-Release Licensed Software
(i) may not be fully functional, may contain errors or design
flaws, and may have reduced or different security, privacy,
accessibility, availability, and reliability standards
relative to commercially provided NVIDIA software and
documentation, and (ii) use of such Pre-Release Licensed
Software may result in unexpected results, loss of data,
project delays or other unpredictable damage or loss.
THEREFORE, PRE-RELEASE LICENSED SOFTWARE IS NOT INTENDED FOR
USE, AND SHOULD NOT BE USED, IN PRODUCTION OR
BUSINESS-CRITICAL SYSTEMS. NVIDIA has no obligation to make
available a commercial version of any Pre-Release Licensed
Software and NVIDIA has the right to abandon development of
Pre-Release Licensed Software at any time without liability.


1.1.4. Enterprise and Contractor Usage

You may allow your Enterprise employees and Contractors to
access and use the Licensed Software pursuant to the terms of
the AGREEMENT solely to perform work on your behalf, provided
further that with respect to Contractors: (i) you obtain a
written agreement from each Contractor which contains terms
and obligations with respect to access to and use of Licensed
Software no less protective of NVIDIA than those set forth in
the AGREEMENT, and (ii) such Contractor’s access and use
expressly excludes any sublicensing or distribution rights for
the Licensed Software. You are responsible for the compliance
with the terms and conditions of the AGREEMENT by your
Enterprise and Contractors. Any act or omission that, if
committed by you, would constitute a breach of the AGREEMENT
shall be deemed to constitute a breach of the AGREEMENT if
committed by your Enterprise or Contractors.


1.1.5. Services

Except as expressly indicated in an Order, NVIDIA is under no
obligation to provide support for the Licensed Software or to
provide any patches, maintenance, updates or upgrades under
the AGREEMENT. Unless patches, maintenance, updates or
upgrades are provided with their separate governing terms and
conditions, they constitute Licensed Software licensed to you
under the AGREEMENT.


1.2. Limitations


1.2.1. License Restrictions

Except as expressly authorized in the AGREEMENT, you agree
that you will not (nor authorize third parties to): (i) copy
and use Software that was licensed to you for use in one or
more NVIDIA hardware products in other unlicensed products
(provided that copies solely for backup purposes are allowed);
(ii) reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble (except to the
extent applicable laws specifically require that such
activities be permitted) or attempt to derive the source code,
underlying ideas, algorithm or structure of Software provided
to you in object code form; (iii) sell, transfer, assign,
distribute, rent, loan, lease, sublicense or otherwise make
available the Licensed Software or its functionality to third
parties (a) as an application services provider or service
bureau, (b) by operating hosted/virtual system environments,
(c) by hosting, time sharing or providing any other type of
services, or (d) otherwise by means of the internet; (iv)
modify, translate or otherwise create any derivative works of
any Licensed Software; (v) remove, alter, cover or obscure any
proprietary notice that appears on or with the Licensed
Software or any copies thereof; (vi) use the Licensed
Software, or allow its use, transfer, transmission or export
in violation of any applicable export control laws, rules or
regulations; (vii) distribute, permit access to, or sublicense
the Licensed Software as a stand-alone product; (viii) bypass,
disable, circumvent or remove any form of copy protection,
encryption, security or digital rights management or
authentication mechanism used by NVIDIA in connection with the
Licensed Software, or use the Licensed Software together with
any authorization code, serial number, or other copy
protection device not supplied by NVIDIA directly or through
an authorized reseller; (ix) use the Licensed Software for the
purpose of developing competing products or technologies or
assisting a third party in such activities; (x) use the
Licensed Software with any system or application where the use
or failure of such system or application can reasonably be
expected to threaten or result in personal injury, death, or
catastrophic loss including, without limitation, use in
connection with any nuclear, avionics, navigation, military,
medical, life support or other life critical application
(“Critical Applications”), unless the parties have entered
into a Critical Applications agreement; (xi) distribute any
modification or derivative work you make to the Licensed
Software under or by reference to the same name as used by
NVIDIA; or (xii) use the Licensed Software in any manner that
would cause the Licensed Software to become subject to an Open
Source License. Nothing in the AGREEMENT shall be construed to
give you a right to use, or otherwise obtain access to, any
source code from which the Software or any portion thereof is
compiled or interpreted. You acknowledge that NVIDIA does not
design, test, manufacture or certify the Licensed Software for
use in the context of a Critical Application and NVIDIA shall
not be liable to you or any third party, in whole or in part,
for any claims or damages arising from such use. You agree to
defend, indemnify and hold harmless NVIDIA and its Affiliates,
and their respective employees, contractors, agents, officers
and directors, from and against any and all claims, damages,
obligations, losses, liabilities, costs or debt, fines,
restitutions and expenses (including but not limited to
attorney’s fees and costs incident to establishing the right
of indemnification) arising out of or related to you and your
Enterprise, and their respective employees, contractors,
agents, distributors, resellers, end users, officers and
directors use of Licensed Software outside of the scope of the
AGREEMENT or any other breach of the terms of the AGREEMENT.


1.2.2. Third Party License Obligations

You acknowledge and agree that the Licensed Software may
include or incorporate third party technology (collectively
“Third Party Components”), which is provided for use in or
with the Software and not otherwise used separately. If the
Licensed Software includes or incorporates Third Party
Components, then the third-party pass-through terms and
conditions (“Third Party Terms”) for the particular Third
Party Component will be bundled with the Software or otherwise
made available online as indicated by NVIDIA and will be
incorporated by reference into the AGREEMENT. In the event of
any conflict between the terms in the AGREEMENT and the Third
Party Terms, the Third Party Terms shall govern. Copyright to
Third Party Components are held by the copyright holders
indicated in the copyright notices indicated in the Third
Party Terms.

Audio/Video Encoders and Decoders

You acknowledge and agree that it is your sole responsibility
to obtain any additional third party licenses required to
make, have made, use, have used, sell, import, and offer for
sale your products or services that include or incorporate any
Third Party Components and content relating to audio and/or
video encoders and decoders from, including but not limited
to, Microsoft, Thomson, Fraunhofer IIS, Sisvel S.p.A.,
MPEG-LA, and Coding Technologies as NVIDIA does not grant to
you under the AGREEMENT any necessary patent or other rights
with respect to audio and/or video encoders and decoders.


1.2.3. Limited Rights

Your rights in the Licensed Software are limited to those
expressly granted under the AGREEMENT and no other licenses
are granted whether by implication, estoppel or otherwise.
NVIDIA reserves all rights, title and interest in and to the
Licensed Software not expressly granted under the AGREEMENT.


1.3. Confidentiality

Neither party will use the other party’s Confidential
Information, except as necessary for the performance of the
AGREEMENT, nor will either party disclose such Confidential
Information to any third party, except to personnel of NVIDIA
and its Affiliates, you, your Enterprise, your Enterprise
Contractors, and each party’s legal and financial advisors
that have a need to know such Confidential Information for the
performance of the AGREEMENT, provided that each such
personnel, employee and Contractor is subject to a written
agreement that includes confidentiality obligations consistent
with those set forth herein. Each party will use all
reasonable efforts to maintain the confidentiality of all of
the other party’s Confidential Information in its possession
or control, but in no event less than the efforts that it
ordinarily uses with respect to its own Confidential
Information of similar nature and importance. The foregoing
obligations will not restrict either party from disclosing the
other party’s Confidential Information or the terms and
conditions of the AGREEMENT as required under applicable
securities regulations or pursuant to the order or requirement
of a court, administrative agency, or other governmental body,
provided that the party required to make such disclosure (i)
gives reasonable notice to the other party to enable it to
contest such order or requirement prior to its disclosure
(whether through protective orders or otherwise), (ii) uses
reasonable effort to obtain confidential treatment or similar
protection to the fullest extent possible to avoid such public
disclosure, and (iii) discloses only the minimum amount of
information necessary to comply with such requirements.


1.4. Ownership

You are not obligated to disclose to NVIDIA any modifications
that you, your Enterprise or your Contractors make to the
Licensed Software as permitted under the AGREEMENT. As between
the parties, all modifications are owned by NVIDIA and
licensed to you under the AGREEMENT unless otherwise expressly
provided in a Supplement. The Licensed Software and all
modifications owned by NVIDIA, and the respective Intellectual
Property Rights therein, are and will remain the sole and
exclusive property of NVIDIA or its licensors, whether the
Licensed Software is separate from or combined with any other
products or materials. You shall not engage in any act or
omission that would impair NVIDIA’s and/or its licensors’
Intellectual Property Rights in the Licensed Software or any
other materials, information, processes or subject matter
proprietary to NVIDIA. NVIDIA’s licensors are intended third
party beneficiaries with the right to enforce provisions of
the AGREEMENT with respect to their Confidential Information
and/or Intellectual Property Rights.


1.5. Feedback

You have no obligation to provide Feedback to NVIDIA. However,
NVIDIA and/or its Affiliates may use and include any Feedback
that you provide to improve the Licensed Software or other
NVIDIA products, technologies or materials. Accordingly, if
you provide Feedback, you agree that NVIDIA and/or its
Affiliates, at their option, may, and may permit their
licensees, to make, have made, use, have used, reproduce,
license, distribute and otherwise commercialize the Feedback
in the Licensed Software or in other NVIDIA products,
technologies or materials without the payment of any royalties
or fees to you. All Feedback becomes the sole property of
NVIDIA and may be used in any manner NVIDIA sees fit, and you
hereby assign to NVIDIA all of your right, title and interest
in and to any Feedback. NVIDIA has no obligation to respond to
Feedback or to incorporate Feedback into the Licensed
Software.


1.6. No Warranties

THE LICENSED SOFTWARE AND ANY OTHER CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
AND/OR SERVICES ARE PROVIDED BY NVIDIA “AS IS” AND “WITH
ALL FAULTS,” AND NVIDIA EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR
STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF
OPERABILITY, CONDITION, VALUE, ACCURACY OF DATA, OR QUALITY,
AS WELL AS ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, SYSTEM
INTEGRATION, WORKMANSHIP, SUITABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF ANY
DEFECTS THEREIN, WHETHER LATENT OR PATENT. NO WARRANTY IS MADE
BY NVIDIA ON THE BASIS OF TRADE USAGE, COURSE OF DEALING OR
COURSE OF TRADE. NVIDIA DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE LICENSED
SOFTWARE OR ANY OTHER CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND/OR SERVICES
PROVIDED BY NVIDIA UNDER THE AGREEMENT WILL MEET YOUR
REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION THEREOF WILL BE
UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, OR THAT ALL ERRORS WILL BE
CORRECTED. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT NVIDIA’S OBLIGATIONS UNDER
THE AGREEMENT ARE FOR THE BENEFIT OF YOU ONLY. Nothing in this
warranty section affects any statutory rights of consumers or
other recipients to the extent that they cannot be waived or
limited by contract under applicable law.


1.7. Limitation of Liability

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, NVIDIA OR ITS
LICENSORS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY LOST PROFITS, LOSS
OF USE, LOSS OF DATA OR LOSS OF GOODWILL, OR THE COSTS OF
PROCURING SUBSTITUTE PRODUCTS, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE AGREEMENT OR THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE LICENSED
SOFTWARE AND ANY OTHER CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND/OR
SERVICES PROVIDED BY NVIDIA UNDER THE AGREEMENT, WHETHER SUCH
LIABILITY ARISES FROM ANY CLAIM BASED UPON BREACH OF CONTRACT,
BREACH OF WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), PRODUCT
LIABILITY OR ANY OTHER CAUSE OF ACTION OR THEORY OF LIABILITY.
IN NO EVENT WILL NVIDIA’S TOTAL CUMULATIVE LIABILITY UNDER
OR ARISING OUT OF THE AGREEMENT EXCEED THE NET AMOUNTS
RECEIVED BY NVIDIA FOR YOUR USE OF THE PARTICULAR LICENSED
SOFTWARE DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS BEFORE THE LIABILITY
AROSE (or up to US$10.00 if you acquired the Licensed Software
for no charge). THE NATURE OF THE LIABILITY, THE NUMBER OF
CLAIMS OR SUITS OR THE NUMBER OF PARTIES WITHIN YOUR
ENTERPRISE THAT ACCEPTED THE TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT SHALL NOT
ENLARGE OR EXTEND THIS LIMIT. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS SHALL
APPLY REGARDLESS OF WHETHER NVIDIA OR ITS LICENSORS HAVE BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES AND REGARDLESS OF
WHETHER ANY REMEDY FAILS ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE. The
disclaimers, exclusions and limitations of liability set forth
in the AGREEMENT form an essential basis of the bargain
between the parties, and, absent any such disclaimers,
exclusions or limitations of liability, the provisions of the
AGREEMENT, including, without limitation, the economic terms,
would be substantially different.


1.8. Term and Termination


1.8.1. AGREEMENT, Licenses and Services

This SLA shall become effective upon the Effective Date, each
Supplement upon their acceptance, and both this SLA and
Supplements shall continue in effect until your last access or
use of the Licensed Software and/or services hereunder, unless
earlier terminated as provided in this “Term and
Termination” section. Each Licensed Software license ends at
the earlier of (a) the expiration of the applicable license
term, or (b) termination of such license or the AGREEMENT.
Each service ends at the earlier of (x) the expiration of the
applicable service term, (y) termination of such service or
the AGREEMENT, or (z) expiration or termination of the
associated license and no credit or refund will be provided
upon the expiration or termination of the associated license
for any service fees paid.


1.8.2. Termination and Effect of Expiration or Termination

NVIDIA may terminate the AGREEMENT in whole or in part: (i) if
you breach any term of the AGREEMENT and fail to cure such
breach within thirty (30) days following notice thereof from
NVIDIA (or immediately if you violate NVIDIA’s Intellectual
Property Rights); (ii) if you become the subject of a
voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy or any
proceeding relating to insolvency, receivership, liquidation
or composition for the benefit of creditors, if that petition
or proceeding is not dismissed with prejudice within sixty
(60) days after filing, or if you cease to do business; or
(iii) if you commence or participate in any legal proceeding
against NVIDIA, with respect to the Licensed Software that is
the subject of the proceeding during the pendency of such
legal proceeding. If you or your authorized NVIDIA reseller
fail to pay license fees or service fees when due then NVIDIA
may, in its sole discretion, suspend or terminate your license
grants, services and any other rights provided under the
AGREEMENT for the affected Licensed Software, in addition to
any other remedies NVIDIA may have at law or equity. Upon any
expiration or termination of the AGREEMENT, a license or a
service provided hereunder, (a) any amounts owed to NVIDIA
become immediately due and payable, (b) you must promptly
discontinue use of the affected Licensed Software and/or
service, and (c) you must promptly destroy or return to NVIDIA
all copies of the affected Licensed Software and all portions
thereof in your possession or control, and each party will
promptly destroy or return to the other all of the other
party’s Confidential Information within its possession or
control. Upon written request, you will certify in writing
that you have complied with your obligations under this
section. Upon expiration or termination of the AGREEMENT all
provisions survive except for the license grant provisions.


1.9. Consent to Collection and Use of Information

You hereby agree and acknowledge that the Software may access
and collect non-personally identifiable information about your
Enterprise computer systems in order to properly optimize such
systems for use with the Software. To the extent that you use
the Software, you hereby consent to all of the foregoing, and
represent and warrant that you have the right to grant such
consent. In addition, you agree that you are solely
responsible for maintaining appropriate data backups and
system restore points for your Enterprise systems, and that
NVIDIA will have no responsibility for any damage or loss to
such systems (including loss of data or access) arising from
or relating to (a) any changes to the configuration,
application settings, environment variables, registry,
drivers, BIOS, or other attributes of the systems (or any part
of such systems) initiated through the Software; or (b)
installation of any Software or third party software patches
initiated through the Software. In certain systems you may
change your system update preferences by unchecking
"Automatically check for updates" in the "Preferences" tab of
the control panel for the Software.

In connection with the receipt of the Licensed Software or
services you may receive access to links to third party
websites and services and the availability of those links does
not imply any endorsement by NVIDIA. NVIDIA encourages you to
review the privacy statements on those sites and services that
you choose to visit so that you can understand how they may
collect, use and share personal information of individuals.
NVIDIA is not responsible or liable for: (i) the availability
or accuracy of such links; or (ii) the products, services or
information available on or through such links; or (iii) the
privacy statements or practices of sites and services
controlled by other companies or organizations.

To the extent that you or members of your Enterprise provide
to NVIDIA during registration or otherwise personal
information, you acknowledge that such information will be
collected, used and disclosed by NVIDIA in accordance with
NVIDIA's privacy policy, available at URL
http://www.nvidia.com/object/privacy_policy.html.


1.10. General

This SLA, any Supplements incorporated hereto, and Orders
constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to
the subject matter hereto and supersede all prior
negotiations, conversations, or discussions between the
parties relating to the subject matter hereto, oral or
written, and all past dealings or industry custom. Any
additional and/or conflicting terms and conditions on purchase
order(s) or any other documents issued by you are null, void,
and invalid. Any amendment or waiver under the AGREEMENT must
be in writing and signed by representatives of both parties.

The AGREEMENT and the rights and obligations thereunder may
not be assigned by you, in whole or in part, including by
merger, consolidation, dissolution, operation of law, or any
other manner, without written consent of NVIDIA, and any
purported assignment in violation of this provision shall be
void and of no effect. NVIDIA may assign, delegate or transfer
the AGREEMENT and its rights and obligations hereunder, and if
to a non-Affiliate you will be notified.

Each party acknowledges and agrees that the other is an
independent contractor in the performance of the AGREEMENT,
and each party is solely responsible for all of its employees,
agents, contractors, and labor costs and expenses arising in
connection therewith. The parties are not partners, joint
ventures or otherwise affiliated, and neither has any
authority to make any statements, representations or
commitments of any kind to bind the other party without prior
written consent.

Neither party will be responsible for any failure or delay in
its performance under the AGREEMENT (except for any payment
obligations) to the extent due to causes beyond its reasonable
control for so long as such force majeure event continues in
effect.

The AGREEMENT will be governed by and construed under the laws
of the State of Delaware and the United States without regard
to the conflicts of law provisions thereof and without regard
to the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods. The parties consent to the
personal jurisdiction of the federal and state courts located
in Santa Clara County, California. You acknowledge and agree
that a breach of any of your promises or agreements contained
in the AGREEMENT may result in irreparable and continuing
injury to NVIDIA for which monetary damages may not be an
adequate remedy and therefore NVIDIA is entitled to seek
injunctive relief as well as such other and further relief as
may be appropriate. If any court of competent jurisdiction
determines that any provision of the AGREEMENT is illegal,
invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions will remain
in full force and effect. Unless otherwise specified, remedies
are cumulative.

The Licensed Software has been developed entirely at private
expense and is “commercial items” consisting of
“commercial computer software” and “commercial computer
software documentation” provided with RESTRICTED RIGHTS.
Use, duplication or disclosure by the U.S. Government or a
U.S. Government subcontractor is subject to the restrictions
set forth in the AGREEMENT pursuant to DFARS 227.7202-3(a) or
as set forth in subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial
Computer Software - Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19,
as applicable. Contractor/manufacturer is NVIDIA, 2701 San
Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95050.

You acknowledge that the Licensed Software described under the
AGREEMENT is subject to export control under the U.S. Export
Administration Regulations (EAR) and economic sanctions
regulations administered by the U.S. Department of
Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC).
Therefore, you may not export, reexport or transfer in-country
the Licensed Software without first obtaining any license or
other approval that may be required by BIS and/or OFAC. You
are responsible for any violation of the U.S. or other
applicable export control or economic sanctions laws,
regulations and requirements related to the Licensed Software.
By accepting this SLA, you confirm that you are not a resident
or citizen of any country currently embargoed by the U.S. and
that you are not otherwise prohibited from receiving the
Licensed Software.

Any notice delivered by NVIDIA to you under the AGREEMENT will
be delivered via mail, email or fax. Please direct your legal
notices or other correspondence to NVIDIA Corporation, 2701
San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95050, United
States of America, Attention: Legal Department.


1.11. Glossary of Terms

Certain capitalized terms, if not otherwise defined elsewhere
in this SLA, shall have the meanings set forth below:

  1. 

    “Affiliate” means any legal entity that Owns, is Owned
    by, or is commonly Owned with a party. “Own” means
    having more than 50% ownership or the right to direct the
    management of the entity.

  2. 

    “AGREEMENT” means this SLA and all associated
    Supplements entered by the parties referencing this SLA.

  3. 

    “Authorized Users” means your Enterprise individual
    employees and any of your Enterprise’s Contractors,
    subject to the terms of the “Enterprise and Contractors
    Usage” section.

  4. 

    “Confidential Information” means the Licensed Software
    (unless made publicly available by NVIDIA without
    confidentiality obligations), and any NVIDIA business,
    marketing, pricing, research and development, know-how,
    technical, scientific, financial status, proposed new
    products or other information disclosed by NVIDIA to you
    which, at the time of disclosure, is designated in writing
    as confidential or proprietary (or like written
    designation), or orally identified as confidential or
    proprietary or is otherwise reasonably identifiable by
    parties exercising reasonable business judgment, as
    confidential. Confidential Information does not and will
    not include information that: (i) is or becomes generally
    known to the public through no fault of or breach of the
    AGREEMENT by the receiving party; (ii) is rightfully known
    by the receiving party at the time of disclosure without
    an obligation of confidentiality; (iii) is independently
    developed by the receiving party without use of the
    disclosing party’s Confidential Information; or (iv) is
    rightfully obtained by the receiving party from a third
    party without restriction on use or disclosure.

  5. 

    “Contractor” means an individual who works primarily
    for your Enterprise on a contractor basis from your secure
    network.

  6. 

    “Documentation” means the NVIDIA documentation made
    available for use with the Software, including (without
    limitation) user manuals, datasheets, operations
    instructions, installation guides, release notes and other
    materials provided to you under the AGREEMENT.

  7. 

    “Enterprise” means you or any company or legal entity
    for which you accepted the terms of this SLA, and their
    subsidiaries of which your company or legal entity owns
    more than fifty percent (50%) of the issued and
    outstanding equity.

  8. 

    “Feedback” means any and all suggestions, feature
    requests, comments or other feedback regarding the
    Licensed Software, including possible enhancements or
    modifications thereto.

  9. 

    “Intellectual Property Rights” means all patent,
    copyright, trademark, trade secret, trade dress, trade
    names, utility models, mask work, moral rights, rights of
    attribution or integrity service marks, master recording
    and music publishing rights, performance rights,
    author’s rights, database rights, registered design
    rights and any applications for the protection or
    registration of these rights, or other intellectual or
    industrial property rights or proprietary rights,
    howsoever arising and in whatever media, whether now known
    or hereafter devised, whether or not registered,
    (including all claims and causes of action for
    infringement, misappropriation or violation and all rights
    in any registrations and renewals), worldwide and whether
    existing now or in the future.

  10. 

    “Licensed Software” means Software, Documentation and
    all modifications owned by NVIDIA.

  11. 

    “Open Source License” includes, without limitation, a
    software license that requires as a condition of use,
    modification, and/or distribution of such software that
    the Software be (i) disclosed or distributed in source
    code form; (ii) be licensed for the purpose of making
    derivative works; or (iii) be redistributable at no
    charge.

  12. 

    “Order” means a purchase order issued by you, a signed
    purchase agreement with you, or other ordering document
    issued by you to NVIDIA or a NVIDIA authorized reseller
    (including any on-line acceptance process) that references
    and incorporates the AGREEMENT and is accepted by NVIDIA.

  13. 

    “Software” means the NVIDIA software programs licensed
    to you under the AGREEMENT including, without limitation,
    libraries, sample code, utility programs and programming
    code.

  14. 

    “Supplement” means the additional terms and conditions
    beyond those stated in this SLA that apply to certain
    Licensed Software licensed hereunder.


2. CUDA Supplement to Software License Agreement
------------------------------------------------


Release date: March 24, 2016
----------------------------

The terms set forth in this CUDA Supplement (“Supplement”)
govern your use of the NVIDIA Licensed Software within the
CUDA family of software products, namely the CUDA Toolkit and
associated drivers, sample source code and the CUDA Nsight
Visual Studio Edition (collectively, the “CUDA Licensed
Software”) under the terms of your software license
agreement (“SLA”) as modified by this Supplement. This
Supplement is an exhibit to the SLA and is hereby incorporated
as an integral part thereto. Capitalized terms used but not
defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to them in the
SLA. In the event of conflict between the terms in this
Supplement and the terms in the SLA, this Supplement shall
control.


2.1. Sample Source Code Modification, Ownership and
Distribution

Subject to the terms of the SLA and this Supplement, NVIDIA
hereby grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable license,
without the right to sublicense, during the applicable license
term unless earlier terminated pursuant to the SLA, to have
Authorized Users modify and create derivative works of CUDA
Licensed Software that constitutes sample source code, when
provided to you by NVIDIA in source code form. You hold all
rights, title and interest in and to your modifications and
derivative works of the sample source code software that you
create as permitted hereunder (collective, Derivatives”),
subject to NVIDIA’s underlying Intellectual Property Rights
in and to the CUDA Licensed Software; provided, however that
you grant NVIDIA and its Affiliates an irrevocable, perpetual,
nonexclusive, worldwide, royalty-free paid-up license to make,
have made, use, have used, reproduce, license, distribute,
sublicense, transfer and otherwise commercialize Derivatives
including (without limitation) with the CUDA Licensed Software
or other NVIDIA products, technologies or materials. You may
distribute the sample source code as delivered by NVIDIA
and/or your Derivatives, provided that all NVIDIA copyright
notices and trademarks are maintained and used properly and
the sample source code includes the following notice: “This
software contains source code provided by NVIDIA
Corporation.”


2.2. CUDA Toolkit Distribution

Subject to the terms of the SLA and this Supplement, NVIDIA
hereby grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable license
during the applicable license term unless earlier terminated
pursuant to the SLA, to distribute the CUDA Licensed Software
identified in Appendix A to this Supplement when delivered to
you as part of the CUDA Toolkit in source code form or binary
form (but not when provided to you as part of a hardware
product), subject to the following: (a) such distribution is
solely in binary form to your licensees (“Customers”) only
as a component of your own software products having additional
material functionality beyond the redistributable CUDA Toolkit
Licensed Software (each, a “Licensee Application"); and (b)
you shall design a Licensee Application such that the
distributable software files are installed only in a private
(non-shared) directory location that is used only by the
Licensee Application. Subject to the terms and conditions of
the SLA and this Supplement, you may further authorize
Customers to redistribute the CUDA Toolkit Licensed Software
as incorporated into a Licensee Application, solely in binary
form, provided, however, that you shall require in your
agreements with your Customers that their distributions be on
terms at least as restrictive as those applicable for your use
of the CUDA Toolkit Licensed Software within a Licensee
Application. The expiration or termination of your licenses to
the CUDA Toolkit Licensed Software under the SLA and this
Supplement will not affect your previous CUDA Toolkit
distributions in compliance with the SLA and this Supplement.

The above distributions are subject to the following: (a) all
distributions by you or your distribution channels must be
consistent with the terms of the AGREEMENT; (b) the
distributed CUDA License Software must include valid copyright
notices indicating NVIDIA’s ownership of the Licensed
Software and (if permitted) modifications; and (c) you must
enter into enforceable agreements that pass down terms
consistent with the terms set forth in the AGREEMENT for use
of the distributable CUDA License Software, including (without
limitation) terms relating to the license grant and license
restrictions, confidentiality and protection of NVIDIA’s
Intellectual Property Rights in and to the CUDA Licensed
Software. You are liable for the distribution and use of CUDA
Licensed Software if you failed to comply with the
distribution requirements of this Supplement. You agree to
notify NVIDIA in writing of any known or suspected
distribution or use of the CUDA Licensed Software not in
compliance with the terms of the AGREEMENT, and to enforce the
terms of your agreements with respect to CUDA Licensed
Software you distributed.


2.3. Operating Systems

CUDA Licensed Software designed exclusively for use on the
Linux or FreeBSD operating systems, or other operating systems
derived from the source code to these operating systems, may
be copied and redistributed, provided that the object code
files thereof are not modified in any way (except for
unzipping of compressed files).


2.4. License Duration

Each CUDA Licensed Software is licensed to you for an initial
duration of two years starting from the date of delivery or
download. The licenses granted will automatically renew for
successive one year periods, provided that NVIDIA reserves the
right to terminate licenses upon ninety days (90) days written
notice to you prior to the commencement of a renewal year in
addition to the termination rights set forth in the SLA.


2.5. Audit

During the term of the AGREEMENT and for three (3) years
thereafter, you will maintain all usual and proper books and
records of account relating to the CUDA Licensed Software
provided under the AGREEMENT. During such period and upon
written notice to you, NVIDIA or its authorized third party
auditors subject to confidentiality obligations will have the
right to inspect and audit your Enterprise books and records
for the purpose of confirming compliance with the terms of the
AGREEMENT. Any such inspection and audit will be conducted
during regular business hours and no more frequently than
annually unless non-compliance was previously found. If such
an inspection and audit reveals a material non-conformance
with the terms of the AGREEMENT, then you will pay NVIDIA’s
reasonable costs of conducting the inspection and audit.
Further, you agree that the party delivering the CUDA Licensed
Software to you may collect and disclose to NVIDIA information
for NVIDIA to verify your compliance with the terms of the
AGREEMENT including (without limitation) information regarding
your use of the CUDA Licensed Software.


2.6. Expiration and Termination of this Supplement

Your failure to comply with the terms of this Supplement is
ground for termination for breach by NVIDIA under the SLA.
This Supplement will automatically expire or terminate upon
the expiration or termination of your rights to CUDA Licensed
Software under the SLA or this Supplement.


2.7. Attachment A


Redistributable Software

In connection with Section 1.2.1.1 of this Agreement, the
following CUDA Toolkit files may be distributed with Licensee
Applications developed by you, including certain variations of
these files that have version number or architecture specific
information embedded in the file name - as an example only,
for release version 6.0 of the 64-bit Windows software, the
file cudart64_60.dll is redistributable.

Component : CUDA Runtime
  Windows : cudart.dll, cudart_static.lib, cudadevrt.lib
  Mac OSX : libcudart.dylib, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a
  Linux   : libcudart.so, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a
  Android : libcudart.so, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a

Component : CUDA FFT Library
  Windows : cufft.dll, cufftw.dll, cufft.lib, cufftw.lib
  Mac OSX : libcufft.dylib, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.dylib, libcufftw_static.a
  Linux   : libcufft.so, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.so, libcufftw_static.a
  Android : libcufft.so, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.so, libcufftw_static.a

Component : CUDA BLAS Library
  Windows : cublas.dll, cublas_device.lib
  Mac OSX : libcublas.dylib, libcublas_static.a, libcublas_device.a
  Linux   : libcublas.so, libcublas_static.a, libcublas_device.a
  Android : libcublas.so, libcublas_static.a, libcublas_device.a

Component : NVIDIA "Drop-in" BLAS Library
  Windows : nvblas.dll
  Mac OSX : libnvblas.dylib
  Linux   : libnvblas.so

Component : CUDA Sparse Matrix Library
  Windows : cusparse.dll, cusparse.lib
  Mac OSX : libcusparse.dylib, libcusparse_static.a
  Linux   : libcusparse.so, libcusparse_static.a
  Android : libcusparse.so, libcusparse_static.a

Component : CUDA Linear Solver Library
  Windows : cusolver.dll, cusolver.lib
  Mac OSX : libcusolver.dylib, libcusolver_static.a
  Linux   : libcusolver.so, libcusolver_static.a
  Android : libcusolver.so, libcusolver_static.a

Component : CUDA Random Number Generation Library
  Windows : curand.dll, curand.lib
  Mac OSX : libcurand.dylib, libcurand_static.a
  Linux   : libcurand.so, libcurand_static.a
  Android : libcurand.so, libcurand_static.a

Component : CUDA Accelerated Graph Library
  Windows : nvgraph.dll, nvgraph.lib
  Mac OSX : libnvgraph.dylib, libnvgraph_static.a
  Linux   : libnvgraph.so, libnvgraph_static.a
  Android : libnvgraph.so, libnvgraph_static.a



Component : NVIDIA Performance Primitives Library
  Windows : nppc.dll, nppc.lib, nppial.dll, nppial.lib, nppicc.dll, nppicc.lib, nppicom.dll, nppicom.lib, nppidei.dll, nppidei.lib, nppif.dll, nppif.lib, nppig.dll, nppig.lib, nppim.dll, nppim.lib, nppist.dll, nppist.lib, nppisu.dll, nppisu.lib, nppitc.dll, nppitc.lib, npps.dll, npps.lib
  Mac OSX : libnppc.dylib, libnppc_static.a, libnppial.dylib, libnppial_static.a, libnppicc.dylib, libnppicc_static.a, libnppicom.dylib, libnppicom_static.a, libnppidei.dylib, libnppidei_static.a, libnppif.dylib, libnppif_static.a, libnppig.dylib, libnppig_static.a, libnppim.dylib, libnppim_static.a, libnppist.dylib, libnppist_static.a, libnppisu.dylib, libnppisu_static.a, libnppitc.dylib, libnppitc_static.a, libnpps.dylib, libnpps_static.a
  Linux   : libnppc.so, libnppc_static.a, libnppial.so, libnppial_static.a, libnppicc.so, libnppicc_static.a, libnppicom.so, libnppicom_static.a, libnppidei.so, libnppidei_static.a, libnppif.so, libnppif_static.a, libnppig.so, libnppig_static.a, libnppim.so, libnppim_static.a, libnppist.so, libnppist_static.a, libnppisu.so, libnppisu_static.a, libnppitc.so, libnppitc_static.a, libnpps.so, libnpps_static.a
  Android : libnppc.so, libnppc_static.a, libnppial.so, libnppial_static.a, libnppicc.so, libnppicc_static.a, libnppicom.so, libnppicom_static.a, libnppidei.so, libnppidei_static.a, libnppif.so, libnppif_static.a, libnppig.so, libnppig_static.a, libnppim.so, libnppim_static.a, libnppist.so, libnppist_static.a, libnppisu.so, libnppisu_static.a, libnppitc.so, libnppitc_static.a, libnpps.so, libnpps_static.a

Component : Internal common library required for statically linking to cuBLAS, cuSPARSE, cuFFT, cuRAND and NPP
  Mac OSX : libculibos.a
  Linux   : libculibos.a

Component : NVIDIA Runtime Compilation Library
  Windows : nvrtc.dll, nvrtc-builtins.dll
  Mac OSX : libnvrtc.dylib, libnvrtc-builtins.dylib
  Linux   : libnvrtc.so, libnvrtc-builtins.so

Component : NVIDIA Optimizing Compiler Library
  Windows : nvvm.dll
  Mac OSX : libnvvm.dylib
  Linux   : libnvvm.so

Component : NVIDIA Common Device Math Functions Library
  Windows : libdevice.compute_20.bc, libdevice.compute_30.bc, libdevice.compute_35.bc, libdevice.compute_50.bc
  Mac OSX : libdevice.compute_20.bc, libdevice.compute_30.bc, libdevice.compute_35.bc, libdevice.compute_50.bc
  Linux   : libdevice.compute_20.bc, libdevice.compute_30.bc, libdevice.compute_35.bc, libdevice.compute_50.bc

Component : CUDA Occupancy Calculation Header Library
  All     : cuda_occupancy.h

Component : Profiling Tools Interface Library
  Windows : cupti.dll
  Mac OSX : libcupti.dylib
  Linux   : libcupti.so

Component : NVIDIA Tools Extension Library
  Windows : nvToolsExt.dll, nvToolsExt.lib
  Mac OSX : libnvToolsExt.dylib
  Linux   : libnvToolsExt.so
      


2.8. Attachment B


Additional Licensing Obligations

The following third party components included in the SOFTWARE
are licensed to Licensee pursuant to the following terms and
conditions:

  1. Licensee's use of the GDB third party component is
    subject to the terms and conditions of GNU GPL v3:

    This product includes copyrighted third-party software licensed
    under the terms of the GNU General Public License v3 ("GPL v3").
    All third-party software packages are copyright by their respective
    authors. GPL v3 terms and conditions are hereby incorporated into
    the Agreement by this reference:     http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt

    Consistent with these licensing requirements, the software
    listed below is provided under the terms of the specified
    open source software licenses. To obtain source code for
    software provided under licenses that require
    redistribution of source code, including the GNU General
    Public License (GPL) and GNU Lesser General Public License
    (LGPL), contact oss-requests@nvidia.com. This offer is
    valid for a period of three (3) years from the date of the
    distribution of this product by NVIDIA CORPORATION.

    Component          License
    CUDA-GDB           GPL v3  

  2. Licensee represents and warrants that any and all third
    party licensing and/or royalty payment obligations in
    connection with Licensee's use of the H.264 video codecs
    are solely the responsibility of Licensee.

  3. Licensee's use of the Thrust library is subject to the
    terms and conditions of the Apache License Version 2.0.
    All third-party software packages are copyright by their
    respective authors. Apache License Version 2.0 terms and
    conditions are hereby incorporated into the Agreement by
    this reference.
    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html

    In addition, Licensee acknowledges the following notice:
    Thrust includes source code from the Boost Iterator,
    Tuple, System, and Random Number libraries.

    Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003
    . . . .
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or 
    organization obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying 
    documentation covered by this license (the "Software") to use, 
    reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and transmit the Software, 
    and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to permit 
    third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all 
    subject to the following:
    
    The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, 
    including the above license grant, this restriction and the following 
    disclaimer, must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole 
    or in part, and all derivative works of the Software, unless such 
    copies or derivative works are solely in the form of machine-executable 
    object code generated by a source language processor.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND 
    NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR 
    ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR 
    OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR 
    OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.  

  4. Licensee's use of the LLVM third party component is
    subject to the following terms and conditions:

    ======================================================
    LLVM Release License
    ======================================================
    University of Illinois/NCSA
    Open Source License
    
    Copyright (c) 2003-2010 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
    All rights reserved.
    
    Developed by:
    
        LLVM Team
    
        University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
    
        http://llvm.org
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to 
    deal with the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
    rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or 
    sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is 
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
    
    *  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
       this list of conditions and the following disclaimers.
    
    *  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimers in the 
       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    
    *  Neither the names of the LLVM Team, University of Illinois at Urbana-
       Champaign, nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or
       promote products derived from this Software without specific prior 
       written permission.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL 
    THE CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR 
    OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
    ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS WITH THE SOFTWARE.  

  5. Licensee's use of the PCRE third party component is
    subject to the following terms and conditions:

    ------------
    PCRE LICENCE
    ------------
    PCRE is a library of functions to support regular expressions whose syntax
    and semantics are as close as possible to those of the Perl 5 language.
    Release 8 of PCRE is distributed under the terms of the "BSD" licence, as
    specified below. The documentation for PCRE, supplied in the "doc" 
    directory, is distributed under the same terms as the software itself. The
    basic library functions are written in C and are freestanding. Also 
    included in the distribution is a set of C++ wrapper functions, and a just-
    in-time compiler that can be used to optimize pattern matching. These are 
    both optional features that can be omitted when the library is built.
    
    THE BASIC LIBRARY FUNCTIONS
    ---------------------------
    Written by:       Philip Hazel
    Email local part: ph10
    Email domain:     cam.ac.uk
    University of Cambridge Computing Service,
    Cambridge, England.
    Copyright (c) 1997-2012 University of Cambridge
    All rights reserved.
    
    PCRE JUST-IN-TIME COMPILATION SUPPORT
    -------------------------------------
    Written by:       Zoltan Herczeg
    Email local part: hzmester
    Emain domain:     freemail.hu
    Copyright(c) 2010-2012 Zoltan Herczeg
    All rights reserved.
    
    STACK-LESS JUST-IN-TIME COMPILER
    --------------------------------
    Written by:       Zoltan Herczeg
    Email local part: hzmester
    Emain domain:     freemail.hu
    Copyright(c) 2009-2012 Zoltan Herczeg
    All rights reserved.
    
    THE C++ WRAPPER FUNCTIONS
    -------------------------
    Contributed by:   Google Inc.
    Copyright (c) 2007-2012, Google Inc.
    All rights reserved.

    THE "BSD" LICENCE
    -----------------
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
    
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
        this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    
      * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
        notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
        documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    
      * Neither the name of the University of Cambridge nor the name of Google 
        Inc. nor the names of their contributors may be used to endorse or 
        promote products derived from this software without specific prior 
        written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
    AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
    ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
    LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF 
    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS 
    INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
    CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) 
    ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  6. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Vasily Volkov and are subject
    to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution License as
    follows:

    Copyright (c) 2007-2009, Regents of the University of California
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of the University of California, Berkeley nor
          the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote
          products derived from this software without specific prior
          written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
    DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
    INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
    (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
    SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
    HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
    STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
    IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  7. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Davide Barbieri and are
    subject to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution
    License as follows:

    Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Davide Barbieri @ University of Rome Tor Vergata.
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
          products derived from this software without specific prior
          written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
    WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
    DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
    INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
    (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
    SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
    HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
    STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
    IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
    POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  8. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were derived from
    code developed by the University of Tennessee and are
    subject to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution
    License as follows:

    Copyright (c) 2010 The University of Tennessee.
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer listed in this license in the documentation and/or
          other materials provided with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its
          contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
          from this software without specific prior written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  9. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Jonathan Hogg and are subject
    to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution License as
    follows:

    Copyright (c) 2012, The Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC).
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of the STFC nor the names of its contributors
          may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
          software without specific prior written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE STFC BE
    LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
    BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
    WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
    OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
    IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  10. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Ahmad M. Abdelfattah, David
    Keyes, and Hatem Ltaief, and are subject to the Apache
    License, Version 2.0, as follows:

     -- (C) Copyright 2013 King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
      Authors:
      Ahmad Abdelfattah (ahmad.ahmad@kaust.edu.sa)
      David Keyes (david.keyes@kaust.edu.sa)
      Hatem Ltaief (hatem.ltaief@kaust.edu.sa)
    
      Redistribution  and  use  in  source and binary forms, with or without
      modification,  are  permitted  provided  that the following conditions
      are met:
    
      * Redistributions  of  source  code  must  retain  the above copyright
        notice,  this  list  of  conditions  and  the  following  disclaimer.
      * Redistributions  in  binary  form must reproduce the above copyright
        notice,  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
        documentation  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
      * Neither  the  name of the King Abdullah University of Science and
        Technology nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse 
        or promote products derived from this software without specific prior 
        written permission.
    
      THIS  SOFTWARE  IS  PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
      ``AS IS''  AND  ANY  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
      LIMITED  TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
      A  PARTICULAR  PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
      HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
      SPECIAL,  EXEMPLARY,  OR  CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES  (INCLUDING,  BUT NOT
      LIMITED  TO,  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
      DATA,  OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
      THEORY  OF  LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
      (INCLUDING  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
      OF  THIS  SOFTWARE,  EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE  

  11. Some of the cuSPARSE library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Li-Wen Chang and are subject
    to the NCSA Open Source License as follows:

    Copyright (c) 2012, University of Illinois.
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Developed by: IMPACT Group, University of Illinois, http://impact.crhc.illinois.edu
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
    a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
    "Software"), to deal with the Software without restriction, including
    without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
    distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
    permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
    the following conditions:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimers in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the names of IMPACT Group, University of Illinois, nor
          the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote
          products derived from this Software without specific prior
          written permission.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
    NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT
    HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
    IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR
    IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH THE
    SOFTWARE.  

  12. Some of the cuRAND library routines were written by or
    derived from code written by Mutsuo Saito and Makoto
    Matsumoto and are subject to the following license:

    Copyright (c) 2009, 2010 Mutsuo Saito, Makoto Matsumoto and Hiroshima
    University. All rights reserved.
    
    Copyright (c) 2011 Mutsuo Saito, Makoto Matsumoto, Hiroshima
    University and University of Tokyo.  All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of the Hiroshima University nor the names of
          its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
          derived from this software without specific prior written
          permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  13. Some of the cuRAND library routines were derived from
    code developed by D. E. Shaw Research and are subject to
    the following license:

    Copyright 2010-2011, D. E. Shaw Research.
    
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
          notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
          copyright notice, this list of conditions, and the following
          disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
          with the distribution.
        * Neither the name of D. E. Shaw Research nor the names of its
          contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
          from this software without specific prior written permission.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  14. Some of the Math library routines were written by or
    derived from code developed by Norbert Juffa and are
    subject to the following license:

    Copyright (c) 2015-2017, Norbert Juffa
    All rights reserved.
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
    are met:
    
    1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    
    2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS 
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT 
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT 
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT 
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  15. Licensee's use of the lz4 third party component is
    subject to the following terms and conditions:

    Copyright (C) 2011-2013, Yann Collet.
    BSD 2-Clause License (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php)
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
    met:
    
        * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
        * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
    in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.
    
    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
    OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
    DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
    THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
    OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.  

  16. The NPP library uses code from the Boost Math Toolkit,
    and is subject to the following license:

    Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003
    . . . .
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or 
    organization obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying 
    documentation covered by this license (the "Software") to use, 
    reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and transmit the Software, 
    and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to permit 
    third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all 
    subject to the following:
    
    The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, 
    including the above license grant, this restriction and the following 
    disclaimer, must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole 
    or in part, and all derivative works of the Software, unless such 
    copies or derivative works are solely in the form of machine-executable 
    object code generated by a source language processor.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
    EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND 
    NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR 
    ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR 
    OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING 
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR 
    OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.  

  17. Portions of the Nsight Eclipse Edition is subject to the
    following license:

    The Eclipse Foundation makes available all content in this plug-in
    ("Content"). Unless otherwise indicated below, the Content is provided
    to you under the terms and conditions of the Eclipse Public License
    Version 1.0 ("EPL"). A copy of the EPL is available at http://
    www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html. For purposes of the EPL, "Program"
    will mean the Content.
    
    If you did not receive this Content directly from the Eclipse
    Foundation, the Content is being redistributed by another party
    ("Redistributor") and different terms and conditions may apply to your
    use of any object code in the Content. Check the Redistributor's
    license that was provided with the Content. If no such license exists,
    contact the Redistributor. Unless otherwise indicated below, the terms
    and conditions of the EPL still apply to any source code in the
    Content and such source code may be obtained at http://www.eclipse.org.  

  18. Some of the cuBLAS library routines uses code from
    OpenAI, which is subject to the following license:

    License URL 
    https://github.com/openai/openai-gemm/blob/master/LICENSE
    
    License Text 
    The MIT License
    
    Copyright (c) 2016 OpenAI (http://openai.com), 2016 Google Inc.
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
    in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
    to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
    copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
    
    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
    THE SOFTWARE.   

  19. Licensee's use of the Visual Studio Setup Configuration
    Samples is subject to the following license:

    The MIT License (MIT) 
    Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person 
    obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation 
    files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, 
    including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, 
    publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, 
    and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, 
    subject to the following conditions:
    
    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
    in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
    OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.  

-----------------
